All right guys so web development involves many different technologies including HDMI LCROSS programming
languages frameworks tools and much more.
But each team on CSX or what I call the building blocks this is where you're going to start whether
you want to build just simple five page Web sites or large social networks and online stores.
So I want to talk about the different roles of each team L and CSX how they play into web development.
So each team L is actually short for hypertext markup language and that's exactly what it is it's it's
a markup language many people that are brand new to web development think it's actually a programming
language but it's not a programming language is where you write code that can do things based on logic
so you can check to see if something is true or false and then do some type of action based on that
condition.
You can do you also do things like math.
You can create reusable functions and the list goes on.
You can't do any of that with each team Al HDL is purely visual and it's used to create and construct
documents that are viewable inside of a web browser.
It doesn't have any any kind of behavior associated with it other than displaying content.
And when I say content I mean text links images things like that.
Now this isn't to minimize each team and in fact there is no Internet as far as the web browser goes
without each team Al.
It's extremely important and relevant and it always will be.
Every single site that you visit displays its markup using HCM Al and sometimes it's it's handwritten
sometimes it's actually generated by another programming language.
But when you view the compiled source of a Web site you're always going to see Team markup.
OK.
Now HDMI all by itself is used to display content but it has little to no styling.
So each time all on its own is very very ugly.
And this is where CSX comes in.
So CSX stands for cascading style sheets and it's what's called a styling language or a style sheet
language like each team.
It's not an actual programming language.
It's purely visual only instead of being used to display content.
It's used to style the content and style the way out.
Now CSX is getting more powerful itself.
You can now have things like variables you can do some calculations and so on.
It can also be extended with something called SAS or less which are CSX pre compilers.
We'll talk a little bit more about SAS later and in talk about some of the things you can do with it.
But we're going to we're not we're going to do that much later.
So basically these two go hand in hand each team all handles the content display CSX handles styling
it with colors alignment fonts and everything else to do with with the styling.
Now as you said web development includes a huge range of technologies to the point where sometimes it's
very overwhelming.
But these two are the building blocks because no matter how complicated the web application it still
uses each Tim Allen CSX to display the visual appearance.
Oh well let's take a web app like Facebook or Amazon.
These are huge web applications that do things like have user accounts you can sign up register you
can create posts on Facebook.
Amazon does credit card processing she has a shopping cart.
You can't have that functionality with just each Mellon CSX.
You need some kind of back end programming language and there's a lot to choose from.
And you also need a database for storage of user accounts in posts and stuff like that.
Now this is stuff you're going to learn in another course but without each G.M. and CSX Facebook and
Amazon ceased to exist because each team on CSX are responsible for displaying the content to you in
a browser whether it's on a computer mobile device or tablet whatever it may be.
So these two technologies are always the first ones that you're going to learn before moving to more
advanced web programming to to build shopping cards and stuff like that.
So you can kind of think of each team on CSX as the human body and you think of programming with other
languages as the human brain.
They both need each other.
Now javascript is sort of in its own league because it is a programming language but it can run on both
the front end with it which is within the browser as well as on the back end server.
OK so JavaScript can be used in the front end for things like form validation click event stuff like
that.
So javascript is is probably the next thing you want to learn after a Jim Clancy ss.
All right.
So we've established basically the purpose of each team Alan CSX is to display web pages and style Web
pages.
So what can we do with just each team Alan CSX not knowing any other programming language.
So after this course you'll be able to build any kind of static web site and by start I mean still so
something where you're not creating user accounts you're not you're not creating posts things like that
and a good example of a static web site is let's say a portfolio to display some of your projects a
small business Web site maybe you know a plumber who wants a Web site where they can display their company
info their contact info stuff like that plumber construction flower shop anything like that.
Also informational and brochure Web sites.
Okay.
You can build some really really beautiful stuff with just age team on CSX.
You just can't have that special kind of functionality like a shopping cart or something like that.
You're going to need to learn more to do that stuff.
You can also build the visual part of anything.
So even an online store or a huge social network like Facebook you could build basically the shell of
it.
You'll just have to have a program or add the life to it where you can actually click post and have
it post or upload an image or something like that.
OK.
So you can do that's this stuff with just each team Mellon CSX.
And I'm going to show you all of this throughout the course.
All right.
So that's it guys in the next video we're going to start to set up our environment.
We're gonna need something called a text editor so that we can actually write our age to Mellon's CSX.
We're going to we're going to use something called V.S. code and we're going to install some extensions
to to allow it to do some extra things for us.
And of course you need a web browser.
We're going to talk about all this in the next video.